because this be there take months to
make because the way they made it was
listed put it on it on another graphic
was called nice and they would rub it
like this until it came to me
Robin Robin rub when they made the hole
they made the hole with a salt were that
was bold drill the bow drill is just a
bowl with a piece of water should make
one of these things situated there a
piece of string or or or gun wrapped
around once surrounded a little divey
just please for the back like this and
you make a little crosscut in these
things in the end for the drill to hold
steady or they had a clamp and just now
typically in ancient times the way the
drill is occurred if you see this hole
minutes be large the hole is pretty
large but you look all the way through
there you'll see that it's actually two
holes one from this side and one from
this side and they sort of meet in the
middle
and then really in the middle you have
to get kind of bends in there and so
forth a modern B no matter how old this
looks this looks very very old is Jasper
being here but if you look right through
that you'll see that it's sonic drill
that's straight through from one side to
the other that all exacts is all exactly
the same sized drill hole most important
thing to understand about an ancient
feed as it never has a straight drill
hole it's never perfect a real inch and
people have the entrance wound and an
exit wound does it work so they'll be
there'll be a little bit larger piece
this one here you can see that's a ston
bayview and this way the drilling that
length of the drill makes the difference
for instance if I had a garden be to
show
even a small gonna beat here like this
is a modern garnet bead here he was
raised as a spacer and it's drilled
halfway across has gone it's so hard and
you can see inside there
these two drill holes ones on this side
ones in this side but they're sonic
drilled see these are drilled in Hong
Kong
yes sonic drill so that means that the
sound very fast that's kind of like
these brushes you know these are broken
beads and I keep these because I want to
show you here's the entrance wound here
it's quite large
the exit wound and the center of the
beam is much much smaller radically
smaller and then the other side would
have had the same thing which is a large
entrance wound in us woman right here
this is small on the outside like this
is much larger than some of the sickness
and there's something in there that
prevents that glass but one thing that
usually will be a bronze rod show you
them to meet and show you how those were
made because that's very fascinating
that's why actually I got to collect the
beads because of the technology
Nicholas admitted himself this is
flights its wrapped around a piece of
straw the straw simply burns away in the
filing process and this is glasses this
is the ancients discovered that you
could actually grind up very fine powder
to glut a powdered sand and sand when
fused together with heat makes it weak
all glass and blazed blast the main
thing is and here's a break stream
example these beads here are very
extreme examples of that drilling
technique where it's very big
when it goes in and then it goes to a
very tiny hole the other side here is
big and it goes into a tiny hole so the
center is not only offset but it's also
much much smaller a good look at the
modern view here and look up into them
to see that that is a perfect drill
there's no way that that could be
ancient this shall be here it happens to
be ancient but there's plenty of modern
beads that look exactly like this
shutters and hardly tell them as his
Shelby this is Paleolithic this is from
Egypt and it's very easy to drill shale
it's very soft as opposed to drilling
garnet
you've never seeks a Fire's of rupees
and they actually work diamonds yes you
do but generally those will be just left
in an actual estate so that's the real
secret understanding ancient beads is is
the drill as in this case this could be
an ancient being but it is not a nation
this is a sonic drill and this big
surface flash here is far too good but
it's not it's not like modern have any
sense of the word what this is employs
though that's glass and there's a little
bit of weathering what's called erosion
erosion is number one number one is the
drill with the actual hole the second
part is the erosion vacuum and the third
part is the patination
or the case it misses everything very
the fact that our surmise intolerance
that's capsules so affluence and have
nation know something to look at last
over those hobbies first thing you look
at the pillow is the deal whole onion is
something that it was done David Bowen
drill when the chances are it's ancient
maybe then you have to look at factors
like where was it found
well we don't know where this family's
respect okay that's it for the moment